# Troubleshooting Renovate

Learn how to troubleshoot problems with Renovate, where to find the logging output, and how to get help if needed.

## Getting the logs

Renovate logs the most recent jobs.
Where you can find the logs depends on how you're running Renovate.

### GitHub Hosted app

Each pull request from Renovate contains a link to the WhiteSource Renovate Dashboard in the PR body text.

The text you're looking for is:

> This PR has been generated by WhiteSource Renovate. View repository job log here.

Click on the blue text "here" to go to the WhiteSource Renovate Dashboard.
Sign in with your GitHub or GitLab account.
Once you're logged in, you can see the logs for the Renovate jobs on your repository.

Renovate only keeps the logs for the last 3 days.

When you've clicked on a recent job, you'll be able to select a debug level that you care about.
For a full overview, make sure you select the DEBUG log level.

### Selfhosted

TODO: Explain log directory structure. Will probably be different depending on self-hosted platform...

TODO: Explain how long logs are kept by default on differnet platforms.

TODO: Explain how to toggle log level: <https://docs.renovatebot.com/examples/self-hosting/#about-the-log-level-numbers>

## Log debug levels

There are different severity levels for the log output.
From least severe to most severe:

- DEBUG
- INFO
- WARN
- ERROR
- FATAL

As you can probably imagine, the stuff that's really going wrong will likely have a level of WARN or higher.

TODO: What do the Renovate maintainers recommend as debug level?

## Relevant part of the logs

Please locate the relevant parts of the logs before asking for help or posting a bug report.
Do not expect the Renovate maintainers to read through the full logs when trying to help you, as that takes a lot of time on our part.

We recommend you follow this process:

1. Read the _whole_ log output, to get a feel for all the steps that Renovate is taking
1. Select - or search for - a higher debug level, like WARN, ERROR or FATAL
1. Comparing the log output from a "bad" job to the log output from a known good job
1. Copy/paste the relevant parts of the logs into your discussion post or bug report

## Getting help

If you cannot fix the problem yourself after reading the logs, and reading - or searching through - our documentation, search the [renovatebot/renovate discussion](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/discussions) forum to see if somebody has asked a similar or related question.

If none of these steps have helped you, then create a new discussion post to get help from the Renovate maintainers.
